>> Student 1: Is this resume
tailored to just USA or
do you think it would
work just kinda anywhere?
>> Jerome Hardaway: I have tailored it to
USA, but I will make it international.
I know the UK does a lot more, has
a different style from the United States,
and I believe India also has one.
It's more they want the education more
upfront than the work experience,
but American market prefers more work
experience up first than education.
So I can tailor it based upon those other
markets, but the data still stands strong.
>> Student 1: Are there job
boards to apply LinkedIn, etc?
Are you gonna cover places where you
can actually submit your resume.
>> Jerome Hardaway: All right, so two
places that we've tested this that that we
are getting very good metrics
was indeed.com and LinkedIn.
So we're using LinkedIn.
We literally just had a troop,
we did their resume.
I had them to easily apply and just easily
apply to every job that they saw and
see how many jobs they would take
before they're getting hits and
then on same way on Indeed, all right
play with this resume right here.
And we wanted to see just how good
it is without the extra tailoring.
This person already had a job so
we weren't planning on someone's life,
of course, right.
[LAUGH] that would be cruel.
So a junior already had a job
doing informational work, and
that is the data and resources,
the data that we learn.
Yes, sir.
>> Student 1: A common resume question
about how far back to go in history?
For instance, this person has 14 years
of experience in Network admin, sys
admin before switching to web development,
is that something that you would.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Which
role do they wanna stay in?
They're trying to stay in software engine.
>> Student 1: You're trying to move to web
development from a network sys admin type?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Well I don't go
past ten years, that's the simple,
cuz even when going to fintech or
legal or anything like that,
they don't go past 10 years
on their background checks.
So I don't know.
>> Student 1: What if the job was
14 years at the same company?
>> Jerome Hardaway: I would just put
14 years at the one company, 14 years.
But the real problem that we're
having there is how are we
gonna try how to leverage those
skills that you learned a job and
then say how that would help in
your current journey for software.
You're moving from hardware to software
we wanna know how that translates and
that's what you have to really focus on.
You have to take down those hard skills,
you have to do a pattern matching
translation of those for the new hard
skills that you're gonna be doing.
>> Student 1: A bit of
a motivation question.
If I'm constantly out there applying for
all these roles,
how do I manage energy between
making my projects better or
volunteering or these kinda things?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Well,
I know you're not constantly applying.
You are time boxing.
You should be able within 25 minutes,
apply for a few roles a day, right?
But don't apply the whole time you want,
it's like an iceberg.
The majority of your time should be
focused on networking, building long-term
relationships with all networking and
building meaningful projects, right?
We'll go further into this, but
you could use your projects to build your
network that will help
you with your job search.
One of the things that we learned during
our studies for this past year is,
when you're building products and
you're out there on the market.
The jobs that you'll get recommended for
or the jobs that you'll get hired for
probably won't be the jobs
that you apply for, right?
So I'm a living testament of that.
The jobs I have today,
I did not initially go looking for it.
I was minding my business on Twitter when
the hiring manager slid into my DMs and
was, hey, I would love for
you to come work with us at Microsoft.
I was like, what?
I don't know about that and
then here I am at Microsoft.
So that is when you're building things,
people notice.
>> Student 1: Assuming you're gonna
cover this a little bit later, but,
tips to deal with ageism or
if you're advanced in your career for
instance, this person online said
she has 27 years at one company.
It was a great job, but
now she's back on the market.
So how do you think about that?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Well 27 years wow,
I would love another job to
keep you there for 27 years.
But it comes down to being able to
showcase your growth within that
company one if it was a tech job and
two how those skills translate and
how you've been staying
current on the market.
Cuz when you see people are accustomed
to people jumping now every two to
five years, right?
So once you get past that sweet
spot of the five year mark,
people assume that you've
gotten comfortable and
you aren't growing at a the clip
that the external market is, right?
Because of how fast Tech changes at
a job versus how it changes externally.
People are assuming you're not
keeping up with that stuff.
So you have to showcase how you're
keeping up with the modern tools and
technologies externally while working
internally, even if you're not using it.
That's one of the reasons
why we do while we continue,
even when we have jobs to
build projects to showcase,
I am still keeping up with
the kids outside, right?
So that we could definitely that's a very
good use case that we could dive deeper
in later.
>> Student 1: Yeah and then we have
the other end of the spectrum on the chat
where he's saying he has
very little experience, and
it's trying to build that experience to
get coz he's not getting Coldax at all.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Build products.
The first thing I hear when I see someone
say they're putting their resume out, and
if I see more than 50 applications, the
first thing I'm going to is their code.
And then I'm going to what is live, and
then I'm gonna go and see what is live,
and I'm going to chop that up and
see, okay.
This is what you haven't done.
This is what you need to do.
There are certain things that, I on here,
I call myself, if you look at it, I say
the roles that I am doing on this resume,
but I still use to turn full stack.
I don't say I'm a full stack engineer
because that's a red flag in
all ATS systems, right?
And hiring managers, when they see,
they want you to talk about full stack and
in terms of that,
you've built on a full stack,
but they don't want you to call
yourself a full stack engineer.
I call myself software engineer.
That's what I do.
I build software, but
I've worked on the full stack.
I've worked in different components of
a stack that you might not even think of.
I've worked on the product side,
the data side, the DevOps side.
I've done,
I've touched all of those, right?
That makes me a software engineer, right?
But I've worked under
the entirety of that stack.
So it's not just what you say,
it's how you say it.
It could be red flag, right?
Putting, I said, very meticulous, very
wild world we're living out there where I
could have work experience
at Tech Corp and
call myself a senior full-stack
engineer and that would get flagged.
But if I call myself a senior software
engineer, it'll get greenlit, right?
So that's how the market is.
>> Student 1: How do you handle imposter
syndrome and comparing yourself and
your abilities to
everybody else constantly?.
>> Jerome Hardaway: One,
I'll start from second question first.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Don't
look at scoreboard.
Focus on what you can do and train, right?
I find that I have the most
imposter syndrome on
the things that I train for
the least, right?
If you asked me to go and
build something and go, I would have crazy
impostor syndrome,
because I have touched absolutely no go.
I don't know anything about that.
But you asked me to do something in
Python, my imposter syndrome would not be
as strong cuz I have three years of
I'm doing that at an enterprise level.
If you ask me something in JavaScript,
I'm of course, yeah, let's do this.
Yeah, I have almost like
a decade of experience, right?
So that is how we do deal
with imposter syndrome
is you keep doing things, practicing.
You keep doing things publicly, right?
You're part of your imposter syndrome is
you're not getting feedback negative or
positive, right?
No one's saying anything good or
bad about your work, so
you're not understanding
where you can improve.
So, and
human beings are naturally negative and
hearing just the bad voices in their head.
So if the only critic you
have in your life is you,
you're gonna tell yourself
you're trash all the time.
But if you are getting external feedback
and people are showing you, hey,
you can improve here.
I really like what you did here,
you should do more of that,
that is how you get better, right?
And that external feedback makes you
better than you get more good jobs
than bad.
And now your imposter syndrome is down.
I can really do this cuz somebody actually
liked the thing I built, that's cool.
>> Student 2: So one issue that
exists in general in the job market,
especially with COVID and
schools being closed and
everything is people have these so
called gaps in their resume.
Maybe they have to attend
to having children
who aren't in school, or
elderly family members,
and so they have what LinkedIn
calls a career break.
Have you seen if that is a red
flag to employers that flat?
If there's not a continuous line
of time in a resume that the AI
system is gonna drag it up.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Negative I'm not
seeing that as long as it's placed, right?
Where the AI doesn't red flag like hey,
are you still stopped in this job and
then you started this job just says
your bounty years of experience.
It doesn't pick up the career breaks.
But people on LinkedIn, and
you can say career break and new kid or
taking care of loved ones,
things of that nature, right?